Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?

  At Global Rain, you are tasked with working with a client, Artemis Financial. Your client is a financial consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for savings, retirement, investments, and insurance for their patrons. As an important step in Artemis Financial’s desire to modernize its operations and as a crucial part of the success of their custom software, they want to implement and apply the most current and effective software security. Artemis Financial has a public web interface and is seeking Global Rain’s expertise in taking steps to protect their client data and financial information. Specifically, Artemis Financial is seeking to add a file verification step to their web application to ensure secure communications. When the web application is used to transfer data, they will need a data verification step in the form of a checksum. You have been asked to take their current software application and add secure communication mechanisms to meet their software security requirements. You will deliver a production quality integrated application that includes secure coding protocols.
  
What did you do particularly well in identifying their software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?

  Something that I did particularly well in identyfying their software security vulnerabilities was I determined what vulnerabilties were false positives and what vulnerabilties were actual issues that needed resolution. In addition to identifying vulnerabilties that were a concern I also was able to find common solutions to rememdy them. It is important to code securely because whenever you dont code with security in mind there is a higher chance to introduce other issues into a project. Keeping secure coding in mind can help reduce how many problems are introduced and can make finding the problems and their solutions a lot easier of a process. Software Security adds value in the form of peace of mind that you know that your data and interactions are being kept safe and secure. Ensuring that you can keep customer information safe is a huge part of having a successful business and keeping the trust of your users. 

What about the process of working through the vulnerability assessment did you find challenging or helpful?

  The part of the process where you have to try to find solutions to some of the problems that come up can be a challenge. When going through the CVE and looking at records they can often be a bit of a maze but once you find a general fix for the issue it is easy to identify. For example you may have to sift through some email threads before you find that updating to the current version of spring-boot solves a particular security concern. This process can take a while depending on how many vulnerabilities there are and in most cases fixing one can fix many but the process itself is still very manual.

How did you approach the need to increase layers of security? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to assess vulnerabilities and determine mitigation techniques?

  Approaching the need for the increase in layers of security is something that should be carried out methodically and very carefully. An entire overview of the system should be done to identify areas that are in need of improvement and areas that need to be repaired. This can be done through manually inspecting the code, assessing how well the code runs, and by performing a vulnerbility assessment. This helps us understand if the code even works in the first place, what areas we can already see that need to be  improved and what vulnerabilities have been found. Once this is done we can now decide the layers of security that could/should be added including hash algorithms, secure https, additional security libraries, or even updated versions of software. 

How did you ensure the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?

  To check if the code is functional and secure one needs to run the code first to identify if there are any problems. If it runs and can be run through a secure port than after refactoring a vulnerability assessment should be done. At this point we have already done one and have already gained knowledge of current vulnerabilties. Once we run the assessment again any new vulnerabilties should show in the report. If new ones were introduced then they should A) be gone through to determine false positives and actual problems and B) the code should be refactored again to fix the issues and then the cycle should be repeated. 

What resources, tools, or coding practices did you employ that you might find helpful in future assignments or tasks?

  The CVE databases are very helpful and a great tool in understanding issues that may come up when performing vulnerability assessments. Additionally, making sure that best coding practices are being followed is very important and knowledge of best secure coding practices is very important as well since they cover different areas. The Maven dependency check is a tool that I will be using from now on in assignments and tasks as it can help me not only refine my code to make sure it is error free but it can help find vulnerabilties to add to the community CVE lists. 

Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to demonstrate your skills, knowledge, and experience. What from this particular assignment might you want to showcase to a future employer?

  This particular assignment is great in that it showcases my ability to take a system and improve it by adding my own refactored code to make it more secure while not introducing new vulnerabilties. I want to showcase that I can examine a system and decide what security layers need to be added in addition to also making sure that it stays secure and that any lingering issues or vulnerabilties can be fixed to improve performance and security. 
